Your earning potential is a far more valuable asset than your car or house. An unexpected accident* may affect your income and ruin your dreams. Accidental disability may affect your ability to perform even some of the simplest tasks such as walking and seeing, keeping you far from generating your income.
Ensure that your family’s lifestyle is not compromised even if you are unable to work due to disability - by securing a monthly income with HDFC Life Income Benefit on Accidental Disability Rider-Linked.
*An accident is a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent means.
HDFC Life Income Benefit on Accidental Disability Rider-Linked at a glance
This rider can be taken on single life basis at inception or on subsequent policy anniversary of the base plan subject to limits specified below:



All ages are age last birthday
^ The premium paying term of this rider will be less than or equal to the outstanding premium paying term under the base product to which this rider will be attached
Note:
The Rider Sum Assured shall not exceed the Sum Assured of the base policy to which this rider is attached. This limit shall be governed by extant regulations at the time of opting for this rider.
Rider will not be offered if the outstanding term under the base policy is less than minimum policy term (in months) as specified above.
Rider will not be offered if the term of the rider exceeds outstanding term under the base policy.
# The maximum Sum Assured shall not exceed the Sum Assured of the base policy to which this rider is at-tached. In addition, the maximum rider sum assured as a proportion of base policy sum assured will be as per the prevailing regulations

The rider premium shall be collected in addition to the premium payable under the base policy. The premium payment frequency for the rider will be same as frequency of the base plan.

In the event of Total Permanent Disability due to accident, you will be paid a regular monthly income equal to 1% of Sum Assured for a fixed period of 10 years.
The total benefit payable should be less than or equal to Sum Assured of the base policy to which this rider is attached.
In case the death of the life assured occurs while the benefit payments are outstanding then the nominee will continue to receive the outstanding monthly benefit payments.

Total Permanent Disability means when the insured is totally, continuously and permanently disabled and meets either of the two definitions below

Disability as a result of injury or accident and is thereby rendered totally incapable of being engaged in any work or any occupation or employment for any compensation, remuneration or profit and he/she is unlikely to ever be able to do so.

The life assured suffers an injury/accident due to which there is total and irrecoverable loss of:
The use of two limbs; or
The sight of both eyes; or
The use of one limb and the sight of one eye; or
Loss by severance of two or more limbs at or above wrists or ankles; or
The total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye and loss by severance of one limb at or above wrist or ankle.
The disabilities as stated above in Part (1) and (2) must have lasted, without interruption, for at least 6 consecutive months and must, be deemed permanent by a medical practitioner*.
The benefit will commence upon the completion of this uninterrupted period of 6 months. How-ever, for the disabilities mentioned in (d) and (e) under Part (2), such 6 months period would not be applicable and the benefit will commence immediately.
There is no waiting period.

The rider aims to provide regular income so that you and your family are financially secure on occurrence of Disability due to accident and hence no death benefit is payable.

There is no maturity benefit available under this rider.

The grace period depends on the premium payment frequency and will be as applicable under the base policy to which this rider is attached.
If the rider premium due remains unpaid by the end of the grace period, the rider benefit will cease. No benefits in respect of this rider will be payable in case of lapsed policies. The Rider Policy is considered to be in-force with the risk cover during the grace period without any inter-ruption. Grace Period of 30 days, where the mode of payment of Premium is annual, half-yearly, quarterly and 15 days in case of monthly mode, is allowed for the payment of each renewal pre-mium after the first premium. The rider is considered to be in-force with the risk cover during the grace period without any interruption.

There is no Paid Up benefit available. If you stop paying your rider premiums during the premium paying term the benefit will cease and the rider will lapse.
Can I Surrender the Benefit?
Surrender value shall be payable subject to following conditions:
Surrender Value is acquired as follows:


Surrender Value for Single and Limited Pay:



Surrender Value =
SV Factor× Total Rider Premiums Paid1 ×Unexpired Rider Term

Original Rider Term

Surrender Value (SV) Factors:


1 Total Rider Premiums Paid means total of all the rider premiums received, excluding any extra premium and taxes.


On failure to pay premiums during the premium paying term the rider cover shall cease immediately and if not revived within the applicable revival period, the rider will terminate post payment of surrender value (if any)

In case the policyholder stops paying Rider Premium during the Rider Premium Paying Term, the Rider will lapse and no further benefits will be payable under this Rider.

Revival of the rider will be as per the revival conditions of the base plan to which it is attached.

As this is a rider benefit, as long as the premium due is paid along with the base premium, the rider benefit is renewed.

The benefit will not be paid if the disability has not persisted for at least 6 consecutive months and is not in the opinion of a medical practitioner*, deemed to be permanent.
*A Medical practitioner is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his license but excluding the Practitioner who is:
Insured/Policyholder himself
Insurance Agent, business partner(s) or employer/employee of the Insured or
A member of the Insured’s immediate family

The rider benefit will not be paid due to:
Pre-existing disease*
Taking part in any hazardous sport or pastimes (including hunting, mountaineering, rac-ing, steeple chasing, bungee jumping, etc)
Self-inflicted injury, attempted suicide-whether sane or insane
Nuclear reaction, radiation or nuclear or chemical contamination
Life Assured flying in any kind of aircraft, other than as a bona fide passenger (whether fare – paying or not) on an aircraft of a licensed airline
Under influence or abuse of drugs, alcohol, narcotics or psychotropic substance not pre-scribed by a registered medical practitioner
War, civil commotion, invasion, terrorism , hostilities (whether war be declared or not)
The Life Assured taking part in any strike, industrial dispute, riot etc
The Life assured taking part in any criminal or illegal activity with a criminal intent or com-mitting any breach of law
*Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 36 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physi-cian within 36 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement

The rider will be available to policyholders of withdrawn/current/subsequently modified, ver-sions of below base products:
HDFC Life Smart Protect Plan	101L175V04
HDFC Life Sampoorn Nivesh	101L103V03
HDFC Life ProGrowth Plus	101L081V06
HDFC Life Click 2 Wealth	101L133V03
HDFC Life Click 2 Invest	101L100V05
HDFC SL ProGrowth - Flexi	101L072V05
HDFC SL ProGrowth Super II	101L072V05
HDFC Life Classic One	101L132V03
HDFC SL Crest	101L064V03

Cancellation in Free-look Period: You shall have the option of cancelling the Rider, stating the reasons thereof, within 30 days from the date of receipt of the Rider Policy Document in case the policyholder is not agreeable to any Rider terms and conditions.
If Rider is cancelled with the Base Policy, Company shall arrange to refund the Premium paid, subject to deduction of the proportionate risk Premium for the period on cover and the expenses incurred for medical examination (if any) and stamp duty, (if any).
If Rider is cancelled independently of the Base Policy then the Rider premium will be returned after adjusting proportionate Rider risk premium for the period of cover and the expenses incurred for medical examination (if any) and stamp duty (if any).The Rider can be cancelled in the free-look period independently of the Base Policy to which it is attached.
The Rider will be cancelled automatically if the Base Policy to which it is attached is cancelled in the free-look period.
Nomination: Nomination for this Rider Policy shall be as per the Nomination Schedule under the Main Policy as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. The simplified version of the provisions of Section 39 is enclosed in Rider policy document for your reference.
Alterations: Rider term and rider sum assured cannot be altered. The premium payment frequency of the rider can be changed if the premium payment frequency on the base product is changed. The premium payment frequency of the rider cannot be changed independently from the base policy.
Assignment and Transfer: This Rider Policy cannot be assigned independently. However the Rider Policy can be assigned along with the Base Policy as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time. The simplified version of the provisions of Section 38 is enclosed in Rider Policy document for your reference.
Prohibition of Rebates: In accordance with Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time: No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer.
Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten Lakh rupees.
Non-Disclosure: In accordance with Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time:
No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e., from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later.
A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of fraud: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or asignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based.
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer: Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive.
A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued:Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based: Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured within a period of ninety days from the date of such repudiation.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.
This is not a comprehensive list of amendments of Insurance Laws (Amendment) Ordinance,2014 and only a simplified version prepared for general information. Policy Holders are advised to refer to Original Ordinance Gazette Notification dated December 26 , 2014 for complete and accurate detail.


Taxes: Taxes and levies as applicable will be charged. Any taxes, statutory levy becoming applicable in future may become payable by you by any method including by levy of an additional monetary amount in addition to premium and/or charges
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
You can contact us at any of the below touchpoints in case of any concern: Helpline number: 022-68446530 (Call Charges apply) | NRI Helpline number
+91 89166 94100 (Call Charges apply)
E-mail Address: service@hdfclife.com | nriservice@hdfclife.com (For NRI customers only) You can let us know of your concerns/grievances through any of below options:
Option 1: Written letter duly signed by the policyholder at any HDFC Life Branch. There is a Grievance Redressal Officer at the respective branch to address the customer’s complaint.
To know more about branch address and timing’s you can visit this link: https://www. hdfclife.com/contact-us#BranchLocator . Please note, branches are closed on Sundays, national holidays and region-specific public holidays.
Option 2: Write to us from your registered email ID at service@hdfclife.com.
Option 3: Visit us at our website https://www.hdfclife.com/customer-service/grievance-redressal
You may refer to the escalation matrix in case there is no response to a grievance within the prescribed timelines
If you still not satisfied with our response, you may approach the Insurance Ombudsman located in your region.


For more information on our Grievance Redressal Mechanism and the detailed address of the Insurance Ombudsman, please refer Part G of the policy document given to you.