

Provides financial protection to your family



Get back all premiums paid with
Smart Exit Benefit1


Option to defer premiums by up to
12 months with Premium Break Benefit2



Get back all premiums paid on survival till maturity with Return of Premium3 option



Accelerated instant death benefit of INR 5 Lakhs with Immediate Payout on Claim Intimation4


1This option can be exercised in any policy year greater than 25, but not during the last 5 policy years.
2 Applicable only after completion of 5 policy years for a maximum of 12 consecu-tive months at a time with a minimum gap of 5 years between each request, subject to a written request at least 30 days (15 days in case of monthly mode policy) in advance, and payment of all outstanding premiums along with next due premium.
3Available on payment of additional premium(s)
4Applicable for all in force policies after a waiting period of 1 year, with a base sum assured of INR 2 crore or more. Claim Payout would be restricted to INR 5 Lakhs. Rest of the claim amount would be released after completion of investigation.
In this day and age of uncertainty, it is crucial to stay protected and secure your family’s future against any ambiguity that life may bring. To help cope with these uncertainties, HDFC Life is proud to present HDFC Life Click 2 Protect Elite Plus, a unique term plan that helps you and your family stay truly protected.
Eligibility:


All ages are expressed as on last birthday. For all ages, risk commences from the date of inception of the contract.
Minimum/Maximum premium will be consistent with Minimum/Maximum Sum Assured. For non-annual modes, premiums paid are calculated as: annual premium multiplied by a conversion factor as given below:


The product can also be purchased online via company website.
Benefits payable under the plan:
The life assured is covered for death benefit during the policy term. Example: Mr. Bansal, a 30 years old gentleman, buys HDFC Life Click 2 Protect Elite Plus for a
policy term of 30 years, 10-Pay, and avails a level cover of INR 2,00,00,000 by paying a premium of INR 31,369 for 1st year and INR 37,794 from second year onwards annually (excluding taxes).Mr. Bansal passes away in the 7th policy year. His nominee will receive a lump sum benefit of INR 2,00,00,000.
Total Premiums Paid: INR 2,58,133


On death of the LIfe Assured during the 7th Policy Year, a lumpsum benefit of INR 2,00,00,000 is paid out to the nominee


0  1	2	3	4	5	6	7


0
Policy Starts


Policy Terminates

Annualized Premium INR 37,794 from
2nd year onwards

Annualized Premium
of INR 31,369 in First Year

Policy Term (30 years)



Death Benefit:
“Death Benefit” is payable as a lump sum if life assured dies during the policy term. It is the highest of:
Basic Sum Assured; or
10 times the Annualized Premium; or
105% of Total Premiums Paid Where,
Annualized Premium is the premium amount payable in a year chosen by the policyholder, excluding taxes, rider premiums, underwriting extra premiums and loadings for modal premiums, if any.
Total Premiums Paid are the total of all the premiums received, excluding any extra premium, any rider premium and taxes. Where additional options have been selected, Total Premiums Paid includes premium paid for base option as well as the premium paid for additional options selected.
Sum Assured on Death is the absolute amount of benefit which is guaranteed to become payable on death of the life assured in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy or an absolute amount of benefit which is available to meet the health cover.
Basic Sum Assured is the amount of sum assured chosen by the policyholder.
Sum Assured on Maturity is the amount which is guaranteed to become payable on maturity of the policy, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Maturity Benefit:
On survival until Maturity, Sum Assured on Maturity (if applicable) will be payable, which will be equal to 100 % of the Total Premiums Paid, if Return of Premium option is selected, Nil otherwise.
Additional benefits available under the Product:
Option to alter premium frequency
The policyholder has the option to alter the premium frequency during the premium payment term.
Return of Premium (ROP) Option
If this option is chosen, policyholder will have to pay an additional premium over and above that payable for the base plan and he/she will receive a return of 100% of the Total Premiums paid as lump sum, upon survival till maturity.
This additional option can be chosen only at policy inception and will be available only where:
Policy term is between 10 and 40 years for Regular Pay and 5 Pay.
Policy term is between 15 and 40 years for 10 Pay.
Policy Term is between 20 and 40 years for Premium Paying Term – 15 years.

To avail this option, additional premium shall be payable. Once chosen, the policyholder doesn’t have the option to opt out of this benefit.
Renewability Option at Maturity
At maturity, the policyholder can choose to extend the term of their policy. The additional premium payable for the extended term will be based on the following:
Attained age at the time of renewability
The chosen increase in policy term
The premium rates applicable for renewability shall be guaranteed at policy inception. However, the availability of this option is subject to BAUP. This option will be available only where:
Premium payment term is Regular Pay
ROP Option is not selected
Immediate Payout on Claim Intimation
In case of death of the life assured, post completion of waiting period of 1 policy year, from the risk commencement date or revival of the policy and provided the policy is in force , upon receipt of intimation of death claim (along with the required supporting documents as may be specified from time to time) an accelerated instant Death Benefit of
INR 5 Lacs will be paid within 1 (one) working day from the claim registration date as gesture to provide interim support.
The remaining sum assured shall be payable post the completion of the claim investigation.
The acceleration of immediate claim payout benefit should not be interpreted as acceptance of the claim, the company reserves the right to repudiate/reject upon complete evaluation of claim.
Further, in case of any discrepancy in the claim investigation resulting in the final decision of non-payment of the claim, the Company reserves the right to recover the already paid amount.

In the event of death of the life insured during the premium break benefit the Company will first deduct the deferred amount from above applicable accelerated death benefit and pay the balance, if any.

Please refer the Policy Document for complete details on the submission of supporting documents for immediate payout on claim intimation.

Premium Break Benefit
If the policy has completed at least five (5) policy years from the risk commencement date and all the due premiums have been received in full and the policy is in force, then, the policyholder upon submitting a prior written request to the Company at least 30 days (15 days in case of monthly mode) in advance before the next policy anniversary, the policyholder shall be allowed to have a premium break benefit under the policy for a period extending up to 12 months from the due date of first unpaid premium (“premium break benefit period”).
During this premium break benefit period, the premium (including any additional premium for the other inbuilt benefits, any underwriting extra premium, loadings for modal premiums, applicable taxes, cesses and levies, etc. if any) due and payable for the said period shall be deferred (“deferred amount”) but the risk cover under the policy shall continue as per the terms and conditions of the policy. In case of any claim under the policy on the happening of any insured event during this period, the Company shall pay the eligible claim under the policy after deducting all the deferred Amount.
This benefit option is available subject to the following conditions:
The policyholder shall be required to submit a written request at least 30 days (15 days in case of monthly premium paying mode and 30 days in case of other modes) in advance each time, the policyholder intends to opt for the above benefit. If a premium (including applicable taxes, cesses and levies, etc. if any) remains
unpaid with no prior request, the policy, shall be subject to the lapse at the end of the grace period, subject to the terms and conditions as stated in Part D of the Policy Document.
This benefit option shall be available for multiple times. However, there shall be a gap of at least 5 policy years between two premium break benefit periods.
If the policyholder exercises the premium break benefit in the last 5 policy years, then the next premium break benefit shall not be allowed.
The premium break benefit shall not be available during the last policy year of the premium payment term.
The benefit is available to all premium payment terms except single pay.
This benefit is applicable for the base policy and rider policy , if any
The policyholder shall pay the deferred amount at the end of or during the premium break benefit period to ensure continuance of the risk cover under the policy.
In case the above outstanding amounts are not paid within 30 days (15 days in case of monthly premium paying mode and 30 days in case of other modes) of the commencement of the next Policy Year after expiry of the premium break benefit period, the Policy shall be subject to the terms and conditions as stated in Part D of the Policy Document, at the end of Grace Period. Further, the Company shall be entitled to recover the deferred amount from the benefits payable under the policy from the policyholder.
During the above premium break benefit period, the policyholder may surrender the policy anytime, however, payments by the Company, if any, shall be first adjusted towards the deferred amount.
No additional premium is payable for this option.
Non Payment of Premiums
Grace Period is the time provided after the premium due date during which the policy is considered to be in-force with the risk cover. This plan has a grace period of 30 days for yearly, half yearly and quarterly frequencies from the premium due date. The grace period for monthly frequency is 15 days from the premium due date.
Should a valid claim arise under the policy during the grace period, but before the payment of due premium, we shall still honor the claim. In such cases, the due and unpaid premium for the policy year will be deducted from any benefit payable.
Paid-Up
A policy will acquire a paid-up value only:

Where Return of Premium is selected with Limited Pay/Regular Pay, and
When premiums are paid for at least 1 full year and after completion of first policy year
In all other cases, the policy lapses on premium discontinuance without any paid-up value.

If a policy has acquired paid-up value and stops paying premiums:

Death benefit shall be the highest of:
Sum Assured on Death × (Total Premiums Paid ÷ Total Premiums Payable)
105% of Total Premiums Paid

Maturity Benefit (where applicable) shall be calculated as:
Sum Assured on Maturity × (Total Premiums Paid ÷ Total Premiums Payable)

Surrender benefit shall be calculated as shown below.

Surrender /Unexpired Risk Premium Value (Surrender Value) Where Return of Premium Option has been selected 
Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) gets acquired immediately upon payment of premium in case of SP Single Pay and upon payment of premiums for at least 2 years in case of Limited Pay/Regular Pay.
The Company may pay a surrender value higher than the GSV in the form of a Special Surrender Value (SSV).
SSV shall become payable after completion of first policy year provided one full year premium has been received for Limited/Regular Pay.
Surrender Value will be the higher of Guaranteed Surrender Value (GSV) and Special Surrender Value (SSV), Where,
GSV = GSV Factor% × Total Premiums Paid
SSV shall be calculated as the expected present value of:
Paid-up guaranteed future benefits on death, survival/maturity and
accrued / vested benefits, duly allowing for survival benefits already paid, if any
The discount rate used to calculate the expected present value shall
be equal to the yield on 10 Year G-Sec plus 50 basis points. Currently, the interest rate used for calculating the expected present value is 7.75% p.a.
The discount rates shall be reviewed at least once annually and in case of any significant movement in the yields. The revised discount rates shall apply to all policies including the policies already sold.

Where Return of Premium Option has not been selected
Policy cancellation value (i.e. Unexpired Risk Premium value) gets acquired upon payment of premiums for at least 1 full year and after completion of first policy year in case of Limited Pay. In all other cases, the policy lapses on premium discontinuance without any value.
Policy cancellation value (if acquired) shall be payable:
Upon death of the life assured during revival period, or
At the end of the revival period if the policy is not revived

The amount payable will be as below:
PCV Factor × Total Premiums Paid× Unexpired Policy Term1 ÷ Original Policy Term
Where, PCV Factor is as follows:



1 Unexpired Policy Term shall be calculated on the earlier of date of surrender and the date till which premiums have been paid.
Smart Exit Benefit:
The policyholder has an option to receive Smart Exit Benefit, equal to Total Premiums Paid under the policy. No additional premium is payable to avail this option.
This option can be exercised by cancelling the policy subject to the following conditions:

This option can be exercised in any policy year greater than 25, but not during the last 5 policy years, and
The policy has to be in-force at the time of exercising this option.
This option shall not be available where:
Return of Premium option has been selected
Revival
You can revive your lapsed policy within the revival period (specified below) subject to the terms and conditions we may specify from time to time. For revival, you will need to pay all the outstanding premiums and interest on the outstanding premiums and taxes and levies as applicable. Interest rate will be as prevailing from time to time. The current interest rate used for revival is 9.5% p.a.
The revival period shall be of five (5) years as specified by the current Regulations. The revival period may be changed as specified by Regulations from time to time.
The revival interest shall be reviewed half-yearly and it will be reset to: Average Annualized 10-year benchmark G-Sec Yield (over last 6 months & rounded up to the nearest 50 bps) + 2%. The change in revival rate shall be effective from 25th February and 25th August each year. Any change on basis of determination of interest rate for revival will be done only after prior approval of the Authority.
Once the policy is revived, you are entitled to receive all contractual benefits.
Riders
We offer the following Rider options (as modified from time to time) to help you enhance your protection:





**For all details on Riders, kindly refer to the Rider Brochures available on our website.
The rider PT and PPT shall be consistent with the base policy’s PT and PPT. Riders will not be offered if the policy term/premium payment term of the rider exceeds outstanding policy term/ premium payment term under the base policy.
While attaching riders to the base option under the product, it will be ensured that there is no overlap in benefit offered under different riders & base product. In case of an overlap, the rider(s) shall not be attached.