Retirement is inevitable, but to plan for it is just a click away!!

IN THIS POLICY, THE INVESTMENT RISK IN INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO IS BORNE BY THE POLICYHOLDER. The
Unit Linked Insurance Products do not offer any liquidity during the first five years of the contract. The policyholder will not be able to surrender or withdraw the monies invested in Unit Linked Insurance Products completely or partially till the end of the fifth year.

One of the biggest challenges of retirement planning is to ensure that you have gathered enough money during your working years that will take care of your expenses once you retire. Given the rising cost of living, increased life expectancy and inflation, investments towards your retirement fund is a must to have in your financial calculations. What is equally important is to ensure that there is adequate investment made towards retirement kitty. But how can one ensure that the contribution made towards post retirement fund is “adequate”?

The exact amount behind “adequate” money you will need when you retire, lies in the answer to two simple questions!








HOW WILL HDFC CLICK 2 RETIRE PLUS II HELP YOU?

HDFC Life Click 2 Retire Plus II is designed to help you build a retirement corpus in a structured and flexible manner. The plan offers variants suited for customers seeking capital protection as well as those aiming for long-term market-linked growth. You can choose from multiple premium payment terms and policy structures depending on your retirement horizon, risk appetite, and investment preference



@Assured vesting benefit only available under Secure plan option. Refer benefit section for more details.
*There are no premium allocation charges under this product

HDFC life Click 2 Retire Plus II offers the following features:
Two plan options designed to cater to capital protection needs, investment preferences, and retirement objectives
Waiver of Premium benefit available under all plan options.
Premium payment options of Single Pay, Limited Pay or Regular Pay
Loyalty additions^ to enhance your fund value based on plan option chosen
Flexibility to alter vesting date and premium payment term

Retirement planning is relevant across professions and life stages. This plan can be purchased by individuals subject to the eligibility criteria below:



There is no limit on the maximum premium which you can pay. The minimum premiums required will depend on choice of option and premium payment frequency that you choose. You can also change premium payment frequency.


1Subject to our Board Approved Underwriting Policy
The plan offers two distinct options –
Secure
Flexi
Under the Flexi Option, you can further choose between two variants –
Flexi-Growth
Flexi-Loyalty

The selection has to be made at policy inception and once chosen the plan option and sub option cannot be changed throughout the policy term.


^Only available with Flexi : Loyalty plan option

Vesting Benefit:
Secure
Your policy vests at the end of the policy term, and your Maturity (Vesting) Benefit will be the higher of the following:
Fund Value or
Assured Vesting Benefit
Assured Vesting Benefit can be calculated as:
[101% +1% * (Policy Term minus Premium Paying Term)] * Total premiums paid till date. For details on Assured Vesting Benefit refer to Terms & Conditions (section C)
Regulation mandates how this Maturity (Vesting) Benefit will be payable to you. Please refer to ‘Utilization of Policy Proceeds’ section below for details.
For example, Mr. Ramesh aged 40 year, invests 2 lakh regular payment for policy term 15 years. At maturity the amount he receives would be higher of the following:
Fund Value: At assumed rate of 8% returns his fund value would be Rs 3,429,371 and at assumed rate of 4% his fund value would be Rs. 1,946,966
Assured Vesting Benefit: Assured Vesting Benefit for Mr. Ramesh would be 115%2 i.e. Rs 30,30,000 Hence, Mr. Ramesh’s vesting benefit would be the fund value of Rs. 3,429,371 which is higher than the Assured Vesting Benefit.
2Pls refer to section C of terms and conditions for Assured Vesting Benefit
Flexi (Growth & Loyalty)
Your policy vests at the end of the policy term, and your Maturity (Vesting) Benefit will be the higher of the following:
Fund Value or
105% of Total premiums paid
Loyalty Additions :
This will only be applicable if policyholder has opted for Plan Option Flexi-Loyalty.
Return of Policy Administration Charges
This will only be applicable if policyholder has opted for 'Plan option B – Flexi and sub plan option - Loyalty' provided all due premiums under the policy have been paid.

Sum total of Policy Administration charges (excluding taxes) collected till 15th policy year will be added to the fund in the form of allocation of extra units at the end of the policy year as mention below


Where extra units are allocated, the allocation between the funds will be in the same proportion as the value of total units held in each fund at the time of allocation.
Addition shall be applicable provided the policy is in force and all due premiums have been paid.
The addition shall not be applicable to the charges deducted on top up premiums or to the top up fund value.
Return of Mortality Charges
This will only be applicable if policyholder has opted for Waiver of Premium Benefit under Plan option B – Flexi with sub plan option - Loyalty provided all due premiums under the policy have been paid. Total Mortality charges (excluding underwriting extra mortality charge and taxes if any) deducted throughout the policy term will be returned back at vesting date. This amount shall be payable along with the fund value at vesting date as mention below:


Deferment of vesting date
The deferment of vesting date (retirement date) can be intimated any time before annuitisation
You can postpone the vesting date any number of times subject to the maximum vesting age of 75 years, provided you are below an age of 60 years
On postponement of vesting date, Assured Vesting Benefit and Death Benefit will continue to apply. The Assured Vesting Benefit will be the same as that calculated on the policy term chosen at the inception of the policy.
The funds will move to Pension Conservative Fund and all applicable charges will continue to be deducted.
Death benefit:
Without Waiver of Premium Option On death during the policy term, the nominee will receive the higher of:
Fund Value (including Top-up premiums), or
105% of total premiums paid (including Top-up premiums)
After payment of the death benefit, the policy will terminate. The nominee can choose to:
Receive the benefit as a lump sum, or
Use the proceeds (fully or partly) to buy an immediate or deferred annuity.
With Waiver of Premium Option On death of the policyholder:
105% of total premiums paid will be paid immediately as Assured Death Benefit.
If future premiums are due, the Company will continue funding them on behalf of the policyholder.
The Fund Value will remain invested until the end of the policy term.
The policy continues till maturity, however, the life cover ceases after death. The nominee can choose to:
Withdraw the proceeds as lump sum,
Purchase an immediate or deferred annuity, or
Continue the policy till maturity.
If the nominee opts for withdrawal or annuity purchase, the policy will terminate.
For Reduced Paid-up Policies
The nominee will receive the higher of:
Fund Value, or
105% of total premiums paid
After payment, the policy will terminate. The nominee can choose to:
Receive the proceeds as lump sum, or
Purchase an immediate or deferred annuity.
Please refer to ‘Utilization of Policy Proceeds’ section below for details.
If you choose to convert the Maturity (Vesting) to an annuity, it will be through the purchase of a new policy from us under our then available annuity product.
Waiver of Premium Benefit :
This Option is not available for Single Pay Policies and can be taken along with both plan options i.e. Secure or Flexi.
In the unfortunate event of death of life assured during the policy term, provided all the due premiums are paid and policy is in force, the nominee shall get a lumpsum benefit immediately on death:
The lumpsum benefit shall be 105 percent of the total premiums received up to the date of death
The policy shall continue till the end of policy term , on each future premium due date(s), an amount equal to the modal premium, shall be credited to the Policyholder's Fund Value after deduction of applicable charges.
The Fund value including Top up Fund value, if any will remain invested in the respective funds
The policy doesn’t terminate on death, the Policy shall continue till vesting, but all risk benefits shall cease. Upon vesting, the vesting benefit shall become payable.
There will be no waiver of premium benefit for a reduced paid-up policy.
Settlement Option
We may provide settlement option on death under this product.
In case of death of the Life Assured during the Policy term, the nominee will have the option to receive the Death Benefit in instalments(payable yearly, half yearly, quarterly or monthly) spread over a maximum period of five (5) years
The Death Benefit will be unitized in the same Fund(s) and in the same proportion as on the date of
intimation of death. However, the nominee has the option to switch fund(if applicable)
The amount paid out to Nominee in each instalment will be the outstanding Fund Value and Top Up
Premium Fund Value, if any, as at that instalment date divided by the number of outstanding instalments.
The first instalment of the Death Benefit will be calculated basis NAV as on the date of intimation of death.
In case of settlement period after maturity/vesting, the risk cover shall be maintained at 105% of the total premiums paid. Accordingly, mortality charges will be deducted, if applicable.
Instalment payment will be made by redeeming units from the Fund(s) at the unit price applicable on the instalment date
Investment risk during the settlement period will be borne by the nominee
No partial withdrawals are allowed during the settlement period
Fund switches are allowed during the settlement period(if allowed under plan option chosen)
Only fund management charge shall be applicable during the settlement period
The nominee shall have an option to withdraw the entire fund value plus top up fund value if any at Settlement option is not available if Waiver of Premium benefit option is opted by policyholder.
Utilization of Policy Proceeds:
On Vesting: On the date of vesting the policyholder shall be allowed:
To commute up to 60% and utilize the balance amount to purchase an immediate annuity or deferred annuity from us at the then prevailing annuity rates subject to point (ii) below.
To purchase an immediate annuity or deferred annuity from another insurer at the then prevailing annuity rates to the extent of percentage, stipulated by the authority, currently 50%, of the entire proceeds of the policy net of commutation.
In Addition, the policyholder will also have the option to extend the accumulation period or deferment period within the same policy with the same terms and conditions as the original policy provided the policyholder is below an age of 60 years.
In case the proceeds of the policy on vesting is not sufficient to purchase minimum annuity as defined in clause 5 of Schedule I of IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations, 2024, as amended from time to time, such proceeds of the policy may be paid to the policyholder as lump sum.
On Death: If the policyholder dies during the deferment period, the nominee or beneficiary shall exercise one of the following options:
Withdraw the entire proceeds of the policy.
To utilize the entire proceeds or part thereof for purchasing an immediate annuity or deferred annuity at the then prevailing annuity rate from us. However, the nominee or beneficiary shall be given an option to purchase annuity from any other insurer at the then prevailing annuity rate to the extent of percentage, stipulated by the Authority, currently 50%, of the proceeds of the policy net of commutation.
In case the proceeds of the policy are not sufficient to purchase minimum annuity as defined in clause 5 of Schedule I of IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations, 2024, as amended from time to time, such proceeds of the policy may be paid to the policyholder as lump sum. Let us look at a few illustrative examples to understand how the plan works.
Example 1: Mr. Verma, aged 35 years works in an MNC and has just completed his retirement planning. He wants stability and wishes to protect his accumulated corpus. Mr. Verma purchases HDFC Life Click 2 Retire Plus II : Secure option which provides capital guarantee for 10 year premium paying term and 20 year policy term for Rs 1 Lakh premium per annum.
Assured Vesting Benefit is : 11,10,000:


&HDFC Life Smart Pension Plus (UIN : 101N173V13) Option B - 'Life Annuity with return of 100% of Total Premiums Paid" is chosen to purchase annuity from use and It is assumed that the entire vesting benefit has been applied to purchase annuity.
The illustration is intended to show year-wise premium payable under the policy, at two rates of interest, i.e. 4% and 8% p.a. Some benefits are guaranteed and some benefits are variable with the returns based on the future performance of your insurer carrying on life insurance business.
The Values depicted with assumed rate of returns @ 4% and 8% p.a. are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of returns of what one can expect and that the returns are subject to number of factors including future investment performance.
OPTION 2. Flexi :Growth
Example 2: Mr. Bansal, aged 40 years, is an entrepreneur. Considering the dynamic nature of his business income, he wishes to invest 1L per annum for 10 years that can grow over 20 years time and support his retirement needs through a highly efficient charge structure. He opts for Click 2 Retire Plus II option Flexi-Growth



&HDFC Life Smart Pension Plus (UIN : 101N173V13) Option B - 'Life Annuity with return of 100% of Total Premiums Paid" is chosen to purchase annuity from use and It is assumed that the entire vesting benefit has been applied to purchase annuity.

The illustration is intended to show year-wise premium payable under the policy, at two rates of interest, i.e. 4% and 8% p.a. Some benefits are guaranteed and some benefits are variable with the returns based on the future performance of your insurer carrying on life insurance business.

The Values depicted with assumed rate of returns @ 4% and 8% p.a. are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of returns of what one can expect and that the returns are subject to number of factors including future investment performance

OPTION 3. Flexi-Loyalty
Example 3: Mr. Shah, aged 40 years, is a business owner. He seeks a retirement solution that combines disciplined savings with potential long-term benefit enhancements. He invests 2L for 10 years in Variant: Flexi Option – Loyalty to get retirement corpus at age 60.



&HDFC Life Smart Pension Plus (UIN : 101N173V13) Option B - 'Life Annuity with return of 100% of Total Premiums Paid" is chosen to purchase annuity from use and It is assumed that the entire vesting benefit has been applied to purchase annuity.
The illustration is intended to show year-wise premium payable under the policy, at two rates of interest, i.e. 4% and 8% p.a. Some benefits are guaranteed and some benefits are variable with the returns based on the future performance of your insurer carrying on life insurance business.
The Values depicted with assumed rate of returns @ 4% and 8% p.a. are not guaranteed and they are not the upper or lower limits of returns of what one can expect and that the returns are subject to number of factors including future investment performance.

Alterations available under Secure option:
Increase the Premium Payment Term# Alterations available under Flexi option:
Decreasing the Premium Payment Term post completion of 5 years#
Increasing the PPT#
Increasing Policy Term#

The change in Premium Payment Term will be subject to following eligibility criteria. Minimum and Maximum Premium Payment Term post alteration:
Minimum: 5 years
Maximum: (Policy Term- 1) years
All alterations, except for decreasing the Premium Payment Term, can be opted for at any time after the issuance of the policy, but will be applicable from the subsequent policy anniversary.
All alterations will be subject to the boundary conditions under the product.
#Opting these alterations will impact benefits payable.


Top Up premium
Top-up premiums will be allowed during the period of contract only, where due premiums are paid up to date.
All Top up premiums made during the vesting period, will have an insurance cover of 105% of the Top-Up premiums paid.
There is no limit on top up premiums invested during the vesting period subject to the top-up amount being at least Rs. 10,000 and subject to BAUP of the Company.
Top-up premiums once paid cannot be withdrawn from the fund for a period of five years from the date of payment of the `Top-up' premium, except in case of complete surrender of the policy.
The policyholder has an option to invest his/her top-up premium net of allocation charges (if applicable) in one or more of the available unit linked pension funds in the proportion specified by the policyholder at the time of payment of top-up premium

Partial Withdrawal
This plan offers you the flexibility to use your fund for any interim financial goals or emergencies by allowing partial withdrawal subject to the following conditions:
Partial withdrawal can be made only after completion of 5 policy years.
In the case of child policies, partial withdrawals shall not be allowed until the minor life insured attains majority i.e., on or after attainment of age 18.
Shall not exceed 25% of the fund value at the time of partial withdrawal.
Minimum amount allowed is Rs. 6,000.
Partial withdrawal is allowed only three times during the entire term of the policy.
Partial withdrawals shall not be allowed which would result in termination of a contract. Partial withdrawals with respect to the fund values from the contractual premiums shall only be counted for the purpose of adjusting the sum assured on death to be payable. Partial withdrawals made from the top-up premiums shall not be deducted for this purpose.
Partial withdrawals made shall be allowed from the fund built up from the Top-up Premiums, if any, as long as such fund supports the Partial Withdrawal and subsequently, the Partial Withdrawals may be allowed from the fund built up from the contractual Premium.
Partial withdrawal shall be allowed only against the stipulated reasons:
Higher education of children including legally adopted child.
Marriage of children including legally adopted child.
For the purchase or construction of residential house or flat in the life assured's own name or in joint name with their legally wedded spouse. However, if the life assured already owns a residential house or flat (other than ancestral property), no withdrawal shall be permitted.
For treatment of critical illnesses of self or spouse or dependent children, including legally adopted child.
Medical and incidental expenses arising from disability or incapacitation suffered by the life assured
Expenses incurred by the life assured for skill development/reskilling or any other self-development activities.
Expenses incurred by the Life assured for the establishment of her/his own venture or any start-ups

Premium Redirection
You have an option to redirect the future allocation of the net amount of premiums available for Investment in any desired proportion in the available Unit Linked Pension funds, either at the policy commencement Date or at any time during the vesting period
Unlimited free premium redirection requests are allowed during the vesting period.

Switching
Under this option, you have an option to switch your investment or a part thereof from one fund to another fund(s) available under this product during the Policy Term.
You can ask us to switch the Funds in which your Units are held. To do this, we will first cancel all of your existing Units. We will then use the proceeds from the cancelled Units, after deducting the applicable charge, to buy Units in your chosen Fund or Funds.
You may choose any Segregated Fund which is available to this product and which we have not withdrawn or closed.
Switching between funds is allowed for unlimited number of times during the Policy Term.
We may levy a charge specified in Charges section, for any Fund Switch request

Grace Period: Grace Period is the time granted by the Company from the due date of the premium payment without levy of interest or penalty. During grace period, the policy is considered to be in force.
Grace period is 15 days for monthly premium payment mode and 30 days for other premium payment modes.

Policy Discontinuance: It is the state of the Policy that could arise on account of Surrender of the Policy or non-payment of the due premium within Grace Period. Policyholder should pay premiums within the Grace Period.

Lock-in Period: Proceeds from a discontinued policy cannot be paid by the Company within the first five years from inception of such policy except in the event of death of life assured.

Discontinuance of Policy during the lock-in-Period:
For other than ‘Single Premium’ policies: upon expiry of the Grace Period, in case of Discontinuance of Policy due to non-payment of Premium, the Fund Value after deducting the applicable Discontinuance charges, shall be credited to the Discontinued Policy Fund and the risk cover and rider cover, if any, shall cease.
All such discontinued policies shall be provided a Revival Period of three years from date of first unpaid Premium. On such Discontinuance, Company shall communicate the status of the Policy, within three months of the first unpaid Premium, to the Policyholder and provide the option to revive the Policy within the Revival Period of three years.
In case the Policyholder opts to revive but does not revive the Policy during the Revival Period, the proceeds of the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension shall be paid** to the Policyholder at the end of the Revival Period or Lock-in Period whichever is later. In respect of Revival Period ending after Lock-in Period, the Policy will remain in Discontinued Policy Fund Pension till the end of Revival Period. The Fund management charges of Discontinued Policy Fund Pension will be applicable during this period and no other charges will be applied.
In case the Policyholder does not exercise the option as set out above, the Policy shall continue without any risk cover and the Policy fund shall remain invested in the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension. At the end of the Lock-in Period, the proceeds of the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension shall be paid** to the Policyholder and the policy shall terminate.
However, the Policyholder has an option to Surrender the Policy anytime and proceeds of the discontinued Policy shall be payable** at the end of Lock-in Period or date of Surrender whichever is later.
In case of Single Premium policies: The Policyholder has an option to surrender any time during the Lock-in Period. Upon receipt of request for Surrender, the Fund Value, after deducting the applicable Discontinuance charges, shall be credited to the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension.
The Policy shall continue to be invested in the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension and the proceeds from the Discontinuance fund shall be paid** at the end of Lock-in Period. Only fund management charge shall be deducted from this fund during this period. Further, no risk cover shall be available on such Policy during the Discontinuance period.

In case the Life Assured dies after the Discontinuance of the Policy, Fund Value as on date of intimation of death shall be payable** on death and the Policy shall terminate.
“Proceeds of the discontinued Policies” means the Fund Value as on the date the policy was discontinued after addition of interest.

The minimum guaranteed interest rate applicable to the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension shall be declared by the Authority from time to time. The current minimum guaranteed interest rate applicable to the Discontinued Policy fund Pension is 4% per annum.
Discontinuance of Policy after the lock-in-Period:

For other than Single Premium policies:
Upon expiry of the grace period, in case of discontinuance of Policy due to non-payment of premium after lock-in period, the Policy shall be converted into a reduced paid up policy with the paid-up sum assured as stated under clause 4(B)(a)(2)(ii) of Schedule-I of IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations, 2024 i.e.; original sum assured multiplied by a ratio of “total period for which premiums have already been paid” to the “maximum period for which premiums were originally payable”. The Policy shall continue to be in reduced paid-up status without rider cover, if any. All charges as per terms and conditions of the Policy shall be deducted during the revival period. However, the mortality charges shall be deducted based on the reduced paid up sum assured only.

On such Discontinuance, Company shall communicate the status of the Policy, within three months of the first unpaid Premium, to the Policyholder and provide the following options:

To revive the Policy within the Revival Period of three years, or

To opt for complete withdrawal of the Policy.

In case the Policyholder opts for (1) but does not revive the Policy during the Revival Period, the Fund Value shall be paid** to the Policyholder at the end of the Revival Period.

In case the Policyholder does not exercise any option as set out above, at the end of the Revival Period or before the end of Policy Term, the policy shall continue to be in reduced paid up status. At the end of the revival period, the proceeds of the Policy fund shall be paid** to the Policyholder and the Policy shall terminate.

In case the Life Assured dies in the Revival Period, higher of Fund Value as on date of intimation of death or 105% of total premiums paid excluding the partial withdrawals made during the two-year period immediately preceding the death of the Life Assured shall be payable** on death and the policy shall terminate.

All charges as per terms and conditions of the policy shall be deducted during the revival period.

However, the Policyholder has an option to Surrender the Policy anytime and proceeds of the Policy fund shall be payable**.

In case of Single Premium Policies: The Policyholder has an option to Surrender the Policy any time. Upon receipt of request for Surrender, the Fund Value as on date of Surrender shall be payable**.

**The Benefit shall be paid out as per the option chosen by the Policyholder as explained under ‘Utilization of Death Benefit’, ‘Utilization of Vesting Benefit’ and ‘Policy surrendered during the Lock-in Period’& ‘Policy Surrendered after completion of Lock-in Period’ respectively for the events of death, vesting & Surrender.
b. Surrender: At any point of time during the policy term, the policyholder can opt to surrender the policy subject to the terms mentioned below:

Policy Surrendered during the Lock-in Period: In case the policy is surrendered during the lock-in period, the fund value net of Policy Discontinuance Charges shall be credited to the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension and the policy will be treated as mentioned in section on Treatment of Policy while in Discontinued Policy Fund Pension”. With respect to the policy surrendered during lock-in period, the fund value credited to the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension will continue to be invested in Discontinued Policy Fund Pension till the end of lock-in period or death of life assured, whichever is earlier. On death of life assured before end of lock-in period, death benefit will be the Discontinued Policy Fund Pension as on date of death of policyholder and must be utilized by the nominee in the same manner as death benefit. On survival of the policyholder till the end of lock-in period, the policy will be terminated and Discontinued Policy Fund Pension as on that date will be utilized by Policyholder in the same manner as vesting benefit.

Policy Surrendered after completion of Lock-in Period: In case the policy is surrendered after completion of lock-in period, the policy stands terminated and fund value as on date of surrender must be utilized by policyholder in the same manner as vesting benefit.
Utilization of Policy Proceeds for Discontinuance/Surrender:
On Surrender: On the date of surrender the policyholder shall be allowed:
To commute up to 60% and utilize the balance amount to purchase an immediate annuity or deferred annuity from us at the then prevailing annuity rates subject to point (ii) below.
To purchase an immediate annuity or deferred annuity from another insurer at the then prevailing annuity rates to the extent of percentage, stipulated by the authority, currently 50%, of the entire proceeds of the policy net of commutation.

In case the proceeds of the policy on surrender is not sufficient to purchase minimum annuity as defined in clause 5 of Schedule I of IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations, 2024, as amended from time to time, such proceeds of the policy may be paid to the policyholder as lump sum. On Discontinuance: The policyholder has an option,

To commute up to 60% and utilize the balance amount to purchase an immediate annuity or deferred annuity from us at the then prevailing annuity rates subject to point (ii) below.
To purchase an immediate annuity or deferred annuity from another insurer at the then prevailing annuity rates to the extent of percentage, stipulated by the authority, currently 50%, of the entire proceeds of the policy net of commutation.

Revival of Discontinued Policies
We understand that you may want to revive your discontinued policy. You have the option to revive
a discontinued policy within three consecutive years from the date of first unpaid premium, subject to payment of all due and unpaid premiums and our Board Approved Underwriting Policy.

Revival of a Discontinued Policy during lock-in Period

Where the policyholder revives the Policy, the policy shall be revived restoring the risk covering accordance with the BAUP, along with the investments made in the segregated funds as chosen by the policyholder, out of the discontinued fund, less the applicable charges as in sub-section
(b ii) below, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Policy.
The Company, at the time of Revival:
Shall collect all due and unpaid premiums without charging any interest or fee.
May levy policy administration charge and premium allocation charge as applicable during the Discontinuance period. Guarantee charges, if applicable during the discontinuance period, may be deducted provided the guarantee continues to be applicable. No other charges shall be levied
Shall add back to the fund, the discontinuance charges deducted at the time of discontinuance of the policy.
Revival of a Discontinued Policy after lock-in Period
The policyholder can revive the Policy as per the Revival of Policy clause provided under the definition section and in accordance with clause 1(A)(1.10) of Schedule-I of IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations, 2024.Wherethe Policyholder revives the Policy, the Policy shall be revived restoring the original risk cover in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Policy and BAUP.
The Company, at the time of Revival:
Shall collect all due and unpaid premiums without charging any interest or fee.
May levy premium allocation charge as applicable. The guarantee charges shall be deducted, if guarantee continues to be applicable
No other charges shall be levied.
QROPS: Access to benefits/payout if this product is purchased as QROPS (Qualifying Recognized Overseas Pension Scheme), through transfer of UK tax relieved assets or as QOPS (Qualifying Overseas Pension Scheme)

In case of policies sourced from QROPs proceeds, it shall be subject to applicable regulatory provisions of HMRC
Benefits on Surrender / Discontinuance: If this product is purchased as QROPS through transfer of UK tax relieved assets or as QOPS, the access to benefits from Policy proceeds in the form of Partial Withdrawal, Commutation and Annuity, would be restricted till the Policyholder attains 55 years of Age or the end of the Lock-in Period whichever is later, except where Critical Ill Health condition* is diagnosed.
*Critical Ill Health condition is where a recognized medical practitioner has provided a written certificate confirming the member is expected to live for less than one year.
Cancellation in the Free-Look Period: - If this product is purchased as QROPS through transfer of UK tax relieved assets, the proceeds from cancellation in the free-look period shall only be transferred back to the fund house from where the money was received.
 Non-Forfeiture Benefits – If this product is purchased as QROPS through transfer of UK tax relieved assets or as QOPS, access to benefits from policy proceeds would be restricted till the policyholder attains 55 years of age.
Overseas transfer charge - In the event of applicable tax charge arising as a result of an overseas transfer (Her Majesty Revenue & Customs (HMRC) - policy paper – The overseas transfer charge – guidance, published 8th March 2017) for which the Scheme Manager i.e. HDFC Life Insurance Company Co. Ltd. may become liable, we shall deduct an amount only to the extent of the applicable tax charge from the Policy Fund Value and remit the same to HMRC.
Commutation - The commuted value is restricted up to 30% of the entire fund value after the Policy Holder has attained age 55.
Benefits on Vesting - If this product is purchased as QROPS through transfer of UK tax relieved assets or as QOPS, access to benefits from policy proceeds both in the form of commutation and Annuitisation, would be restricted till the Policyholder attains 55 years of age or vesting age, whichever is later. For QROPS, partial withdrawal is not applicable

For QROPS, partial withdrawal is not applicable

We reserve the right to review our charging structure at any time, subject to prior approval by IRDAI.
Fund Management Charge: This charge is levied as a percentage of the value of assets and shall be appropriated by adjusting the NAV. This is a charge levied at the time of computation of NAV, which is done on daily basis.
The Fund Management Charge is 1.35 % p.a. of fund value. This charge is charged daily, and is a percentage of the unit funds. This charge may be increased to the maximum cap allowed by IRDAI, subject to prior approval from them.
The Fund Management Charge for Discontinued Policy Fund shall be 0.50% p.a. The Fund Management Charges with each fund as follows:
Option A : Secure


Option B : Flexi






The cap on fund management charges in respect of each of the segregated fund other than discontinued policy fund shall be 135 basis points per annum.

For discontinued policy fund, the cap on fund management charge shall be 50basis points per annum

Policy Administration Charge :
Secure : Nil
Flexi : Charges are mentioned in the table below





No policy administration charge will be deducted post 15 years from the inception of the policy The policy administration charge is subject to the cap of Rs 500 per month as per IRDAI (Insurance Products) Regulations, 2024.

Investment Guarantee Charge:



This charge is charged daily, and is a percentage of the unit funds.
This charge is charged only while the policy is in-force and is not charged on the ‘Discontinued Policy Fund’. This charge can be increased to the maximum cap as allowed by IRDAI, subject to prior approval from IRDAI. Currently, the maximum cap on this charge is 0.50%.
Statutory Charges:
Statutory Taxes and Levies as applicable would be charged. This shall include Taxes and levies, as applicable on or in respect of this Policy. The tax will be taken at the same time and the same method as the charge on which the tax is being levied or as required by legislation. This tax will be determined by the Government of India in accordance with legislation applicable at the time of providing service.

Miscellaneous Charge(s):
A Miscellaneous Charge of Rs 250 shall be levied for any Policy alterations within the contract, as per Section 27(j) of IRDAI (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of Insurers) Regulations, 2024.
However, if the request is executed through the company’s web portal the Policyholder will be charged Rs 25 per request.
The charge may be increased subject to prior approval from IRDAI and is subject to a cap of Rs 500.

Premium Allocation charges : Nil

Applicable only when Waiver of Premium option is opted. This charge is the cost of life or health insurance cover. It is exclusive of any expense loadings and is levied by cancellation of units. This charge, if any, shall be levied at the beginning of each policy month from the fund.

Mortality charge :
Applicable only when Waiver of Premium option is opted. This charge is the cost of life insurance cover It is exclusive of any expense loadings and is levied by cancellation of units. This charge, if any, shall be levied at the beginning of each policy month from the fund.

Mortality charge is calculated as the Sum at Risk multiplied by the appropriate mortality charge rate. This charge will be deducted monthly by cancellation of units. Sum at Risk for a premium paying policy or fully paid-up policy will be calculated as mention below:
105% of Total premiums paid + Waiver of Premium Benefit
Waiver of Premium Benefit = Present Value of outstanding future premiums discounted

Policy Discontinuance Charges
Policy Discontinuance Charges is levied one time on the date of Policy Discontinuation. Policy can be discontinued any time in accordance with the Policy Term subject to the following Policy Discontinuation Charges:

For other than Single Premium Policy:


^^AP – Annualized Premium FV – Fund Value
2.	For Single Premium Policy:


SP – Single Premium FV – Fund Value
The Company can review the policy discontinuance charge after giving 30 days’ notice and with prior approval from IRDAI. The maximum policy discontinuance charge cannot exceed the cap as allowed by IRDAI from time to time. There will be no discontinuance charge levied on top-up premiums.










Option B :These funds will be available in Flexi plan option:








Investment in Mutual Funds will be made as per Mutual Fund limits prescribed by IRDAI regulations and guidelines. As per IRDAI (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of Insurers) Regulations, 2024), the Investment limit in Mutual Funds is 5% of Investment assets. This will apply at overall level and at SFIN level, the maximum exposure shall not exceed 15%.

The asset allocation for the Discontinued Policy Fund (SFIN: ULIF05201/10/13DiscontdPF101) shall be as per the prevailing regulatory requirements. Currently, the asset allocation is as follows:
Money Market Instruments – 0% to 100%
Government securities 0% to 100%

You can access the value of policy wise units held by you, through a secured login, as per the format D02 prescribed under IRDAI (Actuarial, Finance and Investment Functions of Insurers) Regulations, 2024

For risk factors please refer Terms & Conditions section below.
  FUND ALLOCATION FOR PREMIUMS	
This is a unit linked plan; the premiums you pay in this plan are subject to investment risks associated with the capital markets. The unit prices of the funds may go up or down, reflecting changes in the capital markets.

Each fund has its own Investment policy, based on asset allocation between equity, debt and money market instruments. The allocations between the funds are solely determined by us and depend upon the policy term chosen at inception and the policy year.

The premium received from you for HDFC Life Click 2 Retire Plus II would be invested in different funds namely Pension Equity Plus Fund & Pension Income Fund. The proportions of assets to be invested in the Pension Equity Plus Fund are stated in the ‘Equity Backing Ratio’ table given below. The balance assets shall be invested in the Pension Income Fund. Over time the allocation is managed such that it will switch from equity to debt progressively as your policy approaches the vesting date.

In the event of vesting being postponed, the total fund value as on the date of original vesting will be transferred to the Pension Conservative Fund. The monies will remain invested in the Pension Conservative Fund till the revised vesting date.

  TERMS & CONDITIONS	

We recommend that you read and understand this brochure &customised benefit illustration and understand what the plan is, how it works, the risks involved before you purchase.


Risk Factors:
Unit Linked Insurance products are different from the traditional insurance products and are subject to the risk factors.
The premium paid in Unit Linked Insurance policies are subject to investment risks associated with capital markets and the NAVs of the units may go up or down based on the performance of fund and factors influencing the capital market and the insured is responsible for his/her decisions.
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited is only the name of the Life Insurance Company and HDFC Life Click 2 Retire Plus II is only the name of the unit linked insurance contract and does not in any way indicate the quality of the contract, its future prospects or returns.
Please know the associated risks and the applicable charges, from your Insurance agent or the Intermediary or policy document issued by the insurance company.
The various funds offered under this contact are the names of the funds and do not in any way indicate the quality of these plans, their future prospects and returns.

NAV:
NAV means the price of the Units of each Unit Linked Fund arrived at by dividing the Net Asset Value of the Unit Linked Fund by the total number of outstanding units in the Unit Linked Fund. Net Asset Value (NAV) per unit of a Unit Linked Fund shall be calculated as follows:





The NAV for each business day to be declared/recorded at the end of each business day. The NAV shall be computed to four decimal points. The NAV of the Units declared by the Company is net of fund management charges. The value of the benefits payable in respect of a claim, requests for switch/surrender/partial withdrawal received before 3pm on any business day will depend on the number of units and the NAV of the respective funds as on such date. Any claim intimation, requests for switch / surrender/partial withdrawal received after 3pm on any business day will be processed based on the NAV declared on the immediately following business day. In respect of premiums (other than premiums paid by ECS, Standing Instructions or Auto Debit) received before 3 PM on any business day, the NAV as of the date of receipt of such premium shall be applicable and premiums received after 3 PM on any business day will be processed based on the NAV declared on the immediately following business day. In respect of premiums paid by ECS, Standing Instructions or Auto Debit the NAV as on the date of realization shall be applicable

Assured Vesting Benefits:
This is only applicable in Secure option The table below provides you the Assured Vesting Benefits as a percentage of total premiums paid for various policy term & premium payment term:


The Assured Vesting Benefit becomes payable to all in-force and paid up policies on vesting.

Suicide Exclusion:
In case of death due to suicide within 12 months from the date of commencement of the policy or from the date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or the beneficiary of the policyholder shall be entitled to the fund value, as available on the date of intimation of death.
Further any charges other than Fund Management Charges (FMC) and guarantee charges recovered subsequent to the date of death shall be added back to the fund value as available on the date of intimation of death

Tax Benefits:
Tax Benefits may be available as per prevailing tax laws. You are requested to consult your tax advisor

Nomination as per Section 39 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time:
The policyholder of a life insurance on his own life may nominate a person or persons to whom money secured by the policy shall be paid in the event of his death.
Where the nominee is a minor, the policyholder may appoint any person to receive the money secured by the policy in the event of policyholder’s death during the minority of the nominee. The manner of appointment to be laid down by the insurer.
Nomination can be made at any time before the maturity of the policy.
Nomination may be incorporated in the text of the policy itself or may be endorsed on the policy communicated to the insurer and can be registered by the insurer in the records relating to the policy.
Nomination can be cancelled or changed at any time before policy matures, by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will as the case may be.
A notice in writing of Change or Cancellation of nomination must be delivered to the insurer for the insurer to be liable to such nominee. Otherwise, insurer will not be liable if a bonafide payment is made to the person named in the text of the policy or in the registered records of the insurer.
Fee to be paid to the insurer for registering change or cancellation of a nomination can be specified by the Authority through Regulations.
A transfer or assignment made in accordance with Section 38 shall automatically cancel the nomination except in case of assignment to the insurer or other transferee or assignee for purpose of loan or against security or its reassignment after repayment. In such case, the nomination will not get cancelled to the extent of insurer’s or transferee’s or assignee’s interest in the policy. The nomination will get revived on repayment of the loan.
The provisions of Section 39 are not applicable to any life insurance policy to which Section 6 of Married Women’s Property Act, 1874 applies or has at any time applied except where before or after Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act 2015, a nomination is made in favour of spouse or children or spouse and children whether or not on the face of the policy it is mentioned that it is made under Section 39. Where nomination is intended to be made to spouse or children or spouse and children under Section 6 of MWP Act, it should be specifically mentioned on the policy. In such a case only, the provisions of Section 39 will not apply.

Assignment as per Section 38 of the Insurance Act 1938 as amended from time to time:
This policy may be transferred/assigned, wholly or in part, with or without consideration.
An Assignment may be effected in a policy by an endorsement upon the policy itself or by a separate instrument under notice to the Insurer.
The instrument of assignment should indicate the fact of transfer or assignment and the reasons for the assignment or transfer, antecedents of the assignee and terms on which assignment is made.
The assignment must be signed by the transferor or assignor or duly authorized agent and attested by at least one witness.
The transfer of assignment shall not be operative as against an insurer until a notice in writing of the transfer or assignment and either the said endorsement or instrument itself or copy there of certified to be correct by both transferor and transferee or their duly authorized agents have been delivered to the Insurer.
Fee to be paid for assignment or transfer can be specified by the Authority through Regulations.
On receipt of notice with fee, the Insurer should grant a written acknowledgement of receipt of notice. Such notice shall be conclusive evidence against the insurer of duly receiving the notice.
The Insurer may accept or decline to act upon any transfer or assignment or endorsement, if it has sufficient reasons to believe that it is (a) not bonafide or (b) not in the interest of the Policyholder or
(c) not in public interest or (d) is for the purpose of trading of the insurance policy.
In case of refusal to act upon the endorsement by the Insurer, any person aggrieved by the refusal may prefer a claim to IRDAI within 30 days of receipt of the refusal letter from the Insurer.
Section 39 (Nomination) and 38 (Assignment & Transfer) are simplified versions prepared for general information only and hence are not comprehensive. For full texts of these sections please refer to Section 38 and Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended by Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act dated March 23, 2015.
Nomination may be incorporated in the text of the policy itself or may be endorsed on the policy communicated to the insurer and can be registered by the insurer in the records relating to the policy.
Nomination can be cancelled or changed at any time before policy matures, by an endorsement or a further endorsement or a will as the case may be.
A notice in writing of Change or Cancellation of nomination must be delivered to the insurer for the insurer to be liable to such nominee. Otherwise, insurer will not be liable if a bonafide payment is made to the person named in the text of the policy or in the registered records of the insurer.
Fee to be paid to the insurer for registering change or cancellation of a nomination can be specified by the Authority through Regulations.
A transfer or assignment made in accordance with Section 38 shall automatically cancel the nomination except in case of assignment to the insurer or other transferee or assignee for purpose of loan or against security or its reassignment after repayment. In such case, the nomination will not get cancelled to the extent of insurer’s or transferee’s or assignee’s interest in the policy. The nomination will get revived on repayment of the loan.
The provisions of Section 39 are not applicable to any life insurance policy to which Section 6 of Married Women’s Property Act, 1874 applies or has at any time applied except where before or after Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act 2015, a nomination is made in favour of spouse or children or spouse and children whether or not on the face of the policy it is mentioned that it is made under Section 39. Where nomination is intended to be made to spouse or children or spouse and children under Section 6 of MWP Act, it should be specifically mentioned on the policy. In such a case only, the provisions of Section 39 will not apply.

Cancellation in the Free-Look period:
In case you are not agreeable to any of the terms and conditions stated in the Policy, you have the option to return the Policy to us for cancellation stating the reasons thereof, within 30 days from the date of receipt of the Policy whether received electronically or otherwise. On receipt of your letter along with the original Policy (original Policy Document is not required for policies in dematerialized form or where policy is issued only in electronic form), we shall arrange to refund the value of Units allocated to you on the date of receipt of request plus the unallocated part of the Premium plus charges levied by cancellation of Units, subject to deduction of the proportionate risk premium for the period of cover, and the expenses incurred by us on medical examination (if any) and stamp duty charges. If this product is purchased as QROPS through transfer of UK tax relieved assets, the proceeds from cancellation in free look period shall only be transferred back to the Fund House from where the money was received
Prohibition of Rebates:
In accordance with Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time: 1. No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly, as an inducement to any person to take out or renew or continue an insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor shall any person taking out or renewing or continuing a policy accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the insurer.
2. Any person making default in complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable for a penalty, which may extend to ten lakh rupees
Non-Disclosure: In accordance with Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to time:

No policy of life insurance shall be called in question on any ground whatsoever after the expiry of three years from the date of the policy, i.e., from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later.
A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground of fraud: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision is based.
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no insurer shall repudiate a life insurance policy on the ground of fraud if the insured can prove that the mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact was true to the best of his knowledge and belief or that there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of or suppression of a material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer: Provided that in case of fraud, the onus of disproving lies upon the beneficiaries, in case the policyholder is not alive.
A policy of life insurance may be called in question at any time within three years from the date of issuance of the policy or the date of commencement of risk or the date of revival of the policy or the date of the rider to the policy, whichever is later, on the ground that any statement of or suppression of a fact material to the expectancy of the life of the insured was incorrectly made in the proposal or other document on the basis of which the policy was issued or revived or rider issued: Provided that the insurer shall have to communicate in writing to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured the grounds and materials on which such decision to repudiate the policy of life insurance is based: Provided further that in case of repudiation of the policy on the ground of misstatement or suppression of a material fact, and not on the ground of fraud, the premiums collected on the policy till the date of repudiation shall be paid to the insured or the legal representatives or nominees or assignees of the insured within a